how many home for sale signs do you see
in your neighborhood
we're Dave and Mary from front porch
ideas and more calm these are examples
of homes for sale and nearby
neighborhoods how do you set your home
apart from others how do you create a
look that will give potential buyers a
reason to walk inside how do you compete
with other homes like yours that are for
sale in your own neighborhood are you
using your porch to help sell your home
you should it's easy and can be
inexpensive but give your home some real
curb appeal
remember it's what every potential home
buyer sees first so how do you make it
appealing to help sell your home we add
front porch ideas and more were asked to
add some curb appeal to this typical
suburban home for the owners did not
desire to spend a lot of money we wanted
to create a real welcoming look as you
can see it's a fairly ordinary small
porch with a concrete floor let's see
what can be done in a day to create the
look the owners wanted let's start with
two basic porch decorating ideas color
and focal points you want to select
colors that complement your home and you
want to create a focal point something
that catches the eye we did both by
selecting a beautiful spring wreath with
purple yellow and greens to complement
the house color these are great spring
colors and can easily be used throughout
the summer months as well the wreaths
can be seen from the street in an
impressive sight if you open the door we
found the read that Michaels crafts
store on sale the colors are bold but
not overpowering now we use those same
colors in the wreath in other areas on
the porch while at Michaels we also saw
the spring flag that had the same colors
and purchased it at a nominal cost the
flag serves two purposes first the
spring colors complement our color
scheme exactly and second the Freid
calls attention to the porch
remember your five senses and try to
incorporate a few of them into the porch
decorating scheme it's always a good
idea to include something
motion on your porch so as you can see
the flag is easily noticed by passers-by
as it glows in the breeze legs like this
are easy to attach a few screws fasten
the holder to the column insert and
secure the pole and now you have instant
color and movement because this porch is
small what he means as much of it as
possible it doesn't have much width but
it does have height a hanging basket
will help tie the upper and lower
portions together because it's early in
the year we chose to use artificial
flowers for our basket using Purple's
yellows and greens we wired the flowers
in place to keep them anthem we don't
have to water it so we'll keep the porch
a little cooler for showings the hanging
basket along with a wreath and the flag
gives lots of color appeal to the upper
portion 2/4 now let's tackle the lower
portion the concrete floor had stains
and it wasn't the most appealing aspect
of the porch but that's an easy fix we
painted the concrete we purchased a
gallon of concrete paint in tan at Home
Depot
it only took about 20 minutes to paint
it then while the paint was drying
started our next project although our
porch is is relatively small there is
space for a small vent the bench serves
two purposes also first it allows us to
form a space with something usable and
we can paint it to complement our color
scheme it also serves as an enticement
for potential buyers to have a place to
sit and visualize their children playing
in the large driveway or as a place for
a morning cup of coffee
we made the bench from inexpensive
treated lumber it cost under $25 to
build and we designed it so that anyone
could make it it only took about 2 hours
to construct we minimize cutting to only
cross cuts and use exterior screws for
assembly the lakes are made from 1 by 6
treated deck boards and the seat is made
from 1 by 4 decades the back is made by
cutting fence boards you can either
attach the back to the seat or use it
freestanding as we did here next we
purchase three inexpensive pots at home
and cleaning them with a can of purple
scraping they planted pansies and
snapdragons the same flower plants they
owners have planet in an adjacent flower
garden placement of pots is important
we tried similar several variations this
one is fun but it just doesn't give us
the look we need they are just too low
for the port so we made a shelf out of
scraps from the bench project and
painted a green
it gave us height but still didn't look
quite right so we group the containers
together which gave us a lot better look
the flowers because they were young did
not go to pots so we purchased some very
inexpensive artificial flowers and will
remove them once our actual flowers grow
to fill the pots we replace their old
black doormat with warmer spring colors
to liven up the porch floor and give it
a little pizzazz after we placed
everything on the porch when you noticed
it needed something there was a lot of
wall space between the front picture
window from the door we needed to break
that launch space and focus attention to
the port we found this great sign at
Michaels and with a little crafting
transform it in for a nice welcoming
sign right next to the front door so
there you have it a curved appealing
porch the owners loved it and based on
the before and the after pictures we're
sure a potential buyer will - here's a
competing homes porch and here is ours
which one might you walk into we hope
you shown you how to use your porch to
help sell in your home to learn more
about this porch project and other porch
decorating ideas be sure to visit us at
front porch ideas and more calm